
# Week 1: Ideation

## Stage 1 - Desired Results

### Established Goals

Project management is an important part of being a successful in academia as
well as industry. With that said the ability to manage and complete a project is
useless if there is no project to complete. The instruction will help students
create a project.

### Transfer

_Students will be able to independently use their learning to…_

Students will be able to independently use their learning to take information
and create novel project/product ideas.

### Meaning

#### Understandings

_Students will understand that…_

Product creation is an accomplishable endeavor and tools exist to assist in
the ideation phase.

#### Essential Questions

* How do you go from nothing to a project idea?

### Acquisition

#### Students will know…

Students will know how to use a product ideation game called ["Crazy](https://think2make.ch/en/crazy-8s-how-to-generate-ideas-in-8-minutes/) [8s"](https://www.thevisualfacilitator.co.uk/blog/crazy-8s).


#### Students will be skilled at…

Students will be able to ideate for their capstone project.

## Stage 2 - Evidence and Assessment

### Evaluative Criteria

Students will have a well considered product/project proposal.

### Assessment Evidence

#### Performance Task(s):

Students will be asked to report on their project ideas in the following class
period.

#### Other Evidence:

None

## Stage 3 - Learning Plan: _Summary of Key Learning Events and Instruction_

1. Begin with an icebreaker.
2. Discuss syllabus and grading strategy.
    1. This is not gospel. Nothing I tell you is universal truth. I will be
        giving you tools to electively complete a project. These tools might
        not be perfect for you. GREAT! Change them. HOWEVER, I caution you that
        removing sections without good understanding of what the section is
        doing might make things harder for future you.
3. Introduce Crazy 8s
4. Play Crazy 8s