<!-- prettier-ignore-start -->
(W15)=
# Week 15 Overview of qualitative analysis
<!-- prettier-ignore-end -->

## Stage 1 - Desired Results

### Established Goals

Continuous improvement is critical for being and staying an effective
instructor. Every semester an instructor gets data on their students' perception
of the class. The question this raises is "How do I use this data?", the answer
we propose to this question is thematic analysis.

### Transfer

_Students will be able to independently use their learning to…_

Students will be able to independently use their learning to complete a thematic
analysis of their peer feedback.

### Meaning

#### Understandings

_Students will understand that…_

-   Formal analysis of feedback makes you better.

#### Essential Questions

-   How do you your evaluate success in instruction?

### Acquisition

#### Students will know…

-   How to analyze course reviews.

#### Students will be skilled at…

-   Carrying out thematic analysis.

## Stage 2 - Evidence and Assessment

### Evaluative Criteria

-   Students will evaluate their peer feedback.

### Assessment Evidence

#### Performance Task(s):

Students will complete an analysis of the peer feedback they've received over
the course.

#### Other Evidence:

None

## Stage 3 - Learning Plan: _Summary of Key Learning Events and Instruction_

Prior to class, prompt students to print and bring a copy of all of their peer
feedback with them to class. The course will primarily follow this activity
[https://ies.ed.gov/rel-central/2025/01/qualitative-analysis-activity](https://ies.ed.gov/rel-central/2025/01/qualitative-analysis-activity).

1. Give a short overview of thematic analysis.
2. Carry out the
   [activity](https://ies.ed.gov/rel-central/2025/01/qualitative-analysis-activity).
3. With any remaining time have students begin their analysis.
