# Week 2: A project plan

## Stage 1 - Desired Results

### Established Goals

The first step in creating a sustainable project is describing the project at a
high level. This week is devoted to developing items that are useful to document
in a project. Additionally, this week will describe how to develop "rules" for
a team to work by.

### Transfer

_Students will be able to independently use their learning to…_

Develop the high level portions of a project plan:

-   Overview
    -   Objectives
    -   Purpose
    -   Scope
    -   Deliverables
    -   Milestones
    -   etc.
-   Assessment and Control:
    -   Scope Change
    -   Requirements Management
    -   Schedule

### Meaning

#### Understandings

_Students will understand that…_

-   Products have long lives but projects die fast.
-   Future you is a person that you need to collaborate with.
-   Project documentation makes life easier.
-   Project change is manageable.

#### Essential Questions

-   How do you evaluate feasibility of an idea?
-   How can a team work together?

### Acquisition

#### Students will know…

The important high level data that inform project feasibility and how to
document that data. Additionally, what areas are common pain points for working
in a team and how to set rules at project start of managing team interactions.

#### Students will be skilled at…

Documenting a project at a high level and evaluating documentation for
feasibility. Additionally, how to document project working rules.

## Stage 2 - Evidence and Assessment

### Evaluative Criteria

-   Students are expected to develop a project overview for their week 1 idea.

### Assessment Evidence

#### Performance Task(s):

-   Students will be asked to record a draft of their project overview.

#### Other Evidence:

Students will be asked to reflect on their draft as part of their end of
semester portfolio.

## Stage 3 - Learning Plan: _Summary of Key Learning Events and Instruction_

When you have a project idea one of the easiest ways to determine feasibility
is to do a high level analysis, an "overview" of the project. Defining
a project overview opens a window to what resources and time will be needed for
the project. After an overview is complete creating "rules" for the project
allows for a team (including customers) to understand what and when actions
(changes) are allowed.

1. Group discussion:
    1. Students to think about:
        1. Outside of a classroom context what projects have you completed?
        2. When you started how did you know you could finish?
    2. Share thoughts
2. Introduce [the project management triangle](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Project_management_triangle)
3. Group discussion:
    1. Students to think about:
        1. Have you ever run into a situation where the triangle fell apart?
        2. Have you ever run into a situation where you thought a project would
            work and it didn't?
    2. Share thoughts
4. High level project documentation
    1. Repeat "Be kind to future you"
    2. Project feasibility by structure
    3. Go over project plan overview section
5. Group discussion:
    1. Students to think about:
        1. Is anything missing from the template? Why?
        2. Is there anything that should be removed from the template? Why?
    2. Share thoughts
3. Rules for a project
    1. As much as we would love for projects to be static after a kickoff as it
        turns out they are extremely not. Project stakeholders need to interact
        and negotiate changes over the lifetime of a project. Setting
        expectations early and clearly help facilitate effective and
        non-adversarial communication between stakeholders.
    2. Group discussion:
        1. Students to think about:
            1. What are some areas where rules should be defined? Why?
        2. Share thoughts
    3. Go over project template "Assessment and Control"
4. Group discussion:
    1. (time left*.5) Consider how you will fill out (and change) the template for your project.
    2. (time left*.5) Share what you're thinking.