<!-- prettier-ignore-start -->
(W3)=
# Week 3 Backward Design: Phase 1
<!-- prettier-ignore-end -->

## Stage 1 - Desired Results

### Established Goals

Setting reasonable goals for a lesson is hard. Like most areas of work, taking a
structured approach decreases the difficulty to produce quality work. To a
student the act of instruction may seem like black magic, potentially worse is a
student's perception of course design as an activity. We, as instructors, hold
these methods close to the chest as if they are some sort of arcane ritual only
fit for us to know. This week illuminates some of these mysteries for students
by introducing them to "Backwards Design" @wigginsUnderstandingDesign2008, a
structured approach to design of instruction.

Key idea:

> Course design is a structured activity.

### Transfer

_Students will be able to independently use their learning to…_

Students will be able to independently use their learning to structure the
design of their own lesson plan.

### Meaning

#### Understandings

_Students will understand that…_

-   Course design takes time and effort.
-   Course design requires a thoughtful systematic approach.
-   Tools exist to enable effective course design.

#### Essential Questions

-   How do you tailor a course for a chosen audience?
-   How do you design a course?

### Acquisition

#### Students will know…

-   How to use backwards design for ideation.
-   How to use backwards design for planning.
-   How to identify in effective instruction.
-   How to communicate complex ideas to a lay audience.

#### Students will be skilled at…

Students will be able to create the stage 1 portion of a backwards design
document.

## Stage 2 - Evidence and Assessment

### Evaluative Criteria

Students have created a well-formed set of course goals.

### Assessment Evidence

#### Performance Task(s):

Students draft a stage 1 for their teaching lesson.

#### Other Evidence:

None

## Stage 3 - Learning Plan: _Summary of Key Learning Events and Instruction_

In the previous week students were presented with a model lesson. This model
serve as the foundation for how students will frame their lesson, whether we
want them to or not. We also expect students to have completed some reading on
backward design before coming to class, seen in [](#w3_read).

1. Group activity (15 min)
    1. Hand out to the class a blank copy of the backward design template as
       well as a copy of Backward Design Template with Descriptions. Can be
       found in the materials' folder.
    2. Ask students to reflect on the lesson from last week and consider to fill
       in the "Established Goals" section for the model lesson.
    3. Ask students to share what the see as the goals.
2. Share with students the instructor's version of the backward design document
   for the model lesson. (5 min)
3. Group activity (10 min)
    1. Ask students to reflect on the lesson from last week and consider to fill
       in the "Transfer" section for the model lesson.
    2. Ask students to share what the see as the goals.
4. Share with students the instructor's version of the backward design document
   (5 min)
5. Group activity (10 min)
    1. Ask students to reflect on the lesson from last week and consider to fill
       in the "Meaning" section for the model lesson.
    2. Ask students to share what the see as the goals.
6. Share with students the instructor's version of the backward design document
   for the model lesson. (5 min)
7. With remaining time let students fill in a backward design document for their
   lesson.

<!-- prettier-ignore-start -->
(w3_read)=
### Assigned reading - Completed before class
<!-- prettier-ignore-end -->

#### Things I want you to read/watch:

-   [https://teachingtoolkit.ecu.edu/backwards-design/](https://teachingtoolkit.ecu.edu/backwards-design/)
-   Understanding_by_Design ---- Chapter 3 Gaining Clarity on Our Goals
    @wigginsUnderstandingDesign2008

#### Things I think you should read:

-   I think skimming more of Understanding by design
    @wigginsUnderstandingDesign2008 will be helpful when filling out the
    backward design document.
-   [https://psu.pb.unizin.org/app/uploads/sites/88/2018/06/What_is_Backward_Design.pdf](https://psu.pb.unizin.org/app/uploads/sites/88/2018/06/What_is_Backward_Design.pdf)[](https://uiowa.instructure.com/courses/250499/files/27457257?wrap=1)
-   [https://teaching.center.uiowa.edu/sites/teaching.center.uiowa.edu/files/2024-04/CourseGoalsAndObjectives.pdf](https://teaching.center.uiowa.edu/sites/teaching.center.uiowa.edu/files/2024-04/CourseGoalsAndObjectives.pdf)
