<!-- prettier-ignore-start -->
(W5)=
# Week 5 Student Lightning talks
<!-- prettier-ignore-end -->

## Stage 1 - Desired Results

### Established Goals

When developing a lesson it's easy to develop blinders stopping you from seeing
what you have produced for what it is. It's also common to fall into the sunk
cost fallacy. One of the best ways to mitigate these issues is to discuss
progress with peers and receive feedback.

### Transfer

_Students will be able to independently use their learning to…_

Present a talk in a classroom context. Give effective peer feedback.

### Meaning

#### Understandings

_Students will understand that…_

-   Peer feedback can be useful or useless.
-   Presenting to a classroom is possible.

#### Essential Questions

-   How do I effectively give feedback?
-   How do I effectively receive feedback?
-   How do I present a talk to a class?

### Acquisition

#### Students will know…

-   How to identify effective and ineffective feedback.
-   How to manage time in a presentation.
-   How to communicate in a presentation.

#### Students will be skilled at…

-   Giving and receiving feedback.
-   Presenting to a classroom.

## Stage 2 - Evidence and Assessment

### Evaluative Criteria

Students will include their slides and feedback in their portfolio.

### Assessment Evidence

#### Performance Task(s):

-   Students will give a lightning talk on their research.
-   Students will supply peer feedback to other students.
-   Students will give a reflection on their own lightning talk success and
    failures.

#### Other Evidence:

None

## Stage 3 - Learning Plan: _Summary of Key Learning Events and Instruction_

Students are assigned reading on effective peer feedback in week 4.

The whole class section is devoted to student presentations.

### Peer Observation - To be read before class

Moving past this week our work will be largely individual. However, during other
student's talk I'd like you to be an active observer. Additionally, part of the
design of your unit is a set of prompts for the reflection of that week. The
prompts should guide the observation of your peers to the areas you want
feedback on. To help build the prompts and guide your own observation I've
linked here a peer observation toolkit. Please read through this before the
lightning talks so you can get an idea and opportunity to put the ideas into
action.

[https://trefnycenter.mines.edu/peer-observation-toolkit/](https://trefnycenter.mines.edu/peer-observation-toolkit/)

### Commentary
